- [Instructor] As spring developers,
we code and we test and we deliver Java applications
that usually exist only as part
of a larger distributed system.
Application runtime monitoring is a class of monitoring
that provides a whole system view
of your application performance.
Through application runtime monitoring,
you can get insights into the transactions between
your Java application and the other external systems
that you depend on in order to deliver your results.
These transactions are things like HTTP requests
to APIs, database performances, other service call,
like to messaging platforms.
And also alerting is another feature
of application runtime monitoring frameworks.
In this lesson,
we're going to have a look at a specific APM solution
called Glowroot.
Glowroot is an open source APM.
It is easy to run locally.
And so it's a nice learning tool for getting to know
about the possibilities for APM monitoring
and what you can learn from them about your application.
We will go now and do a demonstration of our application,
and we're going to have a look at some of the features
and functionalities using Glowroot
to get insight into our performance.
First of all, in order to configure Glowroot
to work with your local application, really quite simple,
you need to download the tool and install it,
which we're not going to cover here.
But the thing we are going to cover is
once you get it installed,
you need to add to your virtual machine parameters,
a path to the Glowroot executable.
So that looks like a Java agent,
JVM parameter,
and simply the path to Glowroot will come.
You'll download it, unzip it,
and you'll get a jar and you need to put the path
to that jar file here in your VM.
And then when you start up your application,
Glowroot will be able to look at it and monitor it.
And that looks something like this.
So without more discussion about it,
let's just have a dive right into Glowroot
and have a look at the things that we can learn from it.
So Glowroot is running as it's a self-standing
web application.
It typically runs on port 4000.
And because we put in those JVM parameters,
now Glowroot has insight into our running Java application
and can give us lots of good information.
Let's start and just have a look at what Glowroot
can tell us.
So Glowroot is divided, as many APMs are,
into kind of transactions, errors,
the Java virtual machine runtime, and some reporting tools.
Let's focus right here on the transactions tab,
because this is where a lot of the information
you want will be at.
Glowroot does have a separation between startup transactions
and web transactions.
We're going to have a look at our web transactions.
And what we see here on the left
are several of the endpoints that our client demo
application provides.
And to set up this lesson,
I have hit a number of these endpoints.
So we can jump in here and look at specifically
what Glowroot can tell us about the performance
of our application.
Let's start with this quoter endpoint.
So what we can learn from looking at this number
is how our application performed
when we hit this quoter endpoint.
And what we see is that it took five seconds.
That's a pretty long response time.
And it also tells us that our activity on this endpoint
was divided between an HTTP call,
some application logging and other.
Well,
the first thing you might notice is,
what is all that whole five seconds of other all about?
Well, if you didn't know this,
you would kind of go in here and look for yourself.
But we know, because we know the code,
that this quoter endpoint is calling out to a service.
And then we have manufactured a delay here
by putting in a five second thread sleep.
And the reason we did that is so that I could show to you
how it will report to us here in Glowroot,
that we spent five whole seconds doing something
that it wasn't sure what, but it's telling us all about it.
So immediately this breakdown here of the activity
is very valuable to us.
It also here in this quoter tells us about the service call
that we did call telling us that the average response time
there is only 137 milliseconds.
So we know that the delay there is much different.
Now let's have a look at a different type of endpoint,
which is long wait.
The response times here are also five seconds,
but what this tells us is that that entire five seconds
almost was spent with the HTTP client
waiting for a response.
Again, we can see why that is.
Long wait calls our internal demo API,
and that demo API we happened to know also introduces
a five second delay in its response time.
We can't know on the front end that that happened,
but what we can see is, my goodness,
the service took a long time to respond.
There's something going on over there
that we should maybe understand.
This is a good spot to have a look
at the slow traces section.
The slow traces will give us more details
about what was going on in those five seconds.
Now let's look at another endpoint, the query endpoint.
This is a nice one,
because what I can show you here are a couple things.
This one has a nice breakdown of a number of types
of activities.
We've got a JDBC connection, some logging,
and then some other activity here,
which is an introduced wait time.
But the thing I want to show you here is queries.
You can see a breakdown of queries
every time this endpoint is called.
Glowroot will keep track of the queries,
keep track of how many times it's been called
and the average performance of that database query.
So this is extremely valuable information
for diagnosing slow query performance.
Let me now show you this oops endpoint.
Not a whole lot to see here,
we see a pretty fast response time on this one,
but most of the time spent in the spring controller.
That's interesting.
Let's go over here and look at the errors tab.
This is a good place to demonstrate this tab to you.
We have with the oops endpoint a couple of errors.
And again, I can show you why that is.
That is because here on our oops endpoint,
we're just throwing a new runtime exception
just so we can see how Glowroot
will report that back out to us.
Oops shows two errors.
We can trace these errors and get information about them
and actually trace in and see details about that.
A couple more things I'll show you here
in the Glowroot options are the JVM section
gives us a lot of information about the JVM.
We have covered this material in a previous lesson
that some of this is the same kind of things you will see
in J console or visual VM and Glowroot
will also surface JVM statistics here.
And then the final thing I want to point out to you here
in Glowroot is the capability to do reporting.
Very useful when needing to give some type of feedback
to your application stakeholders.
For instance,
we can get a transaction count on our web transactions.
Let's give it no filter.
Let's make this hourly.
Let's look over the past couple of days for our report.
Now this is interesting. You see 240 transactions.
When we dig a look into what some of these transactions are,
we can actually see something interesting here,
which is the Prometheus tool,
which we've looked at in other lessons,
is making calls also into our client demo application.
And those are also reflecting here in Glowroot.
One final thing I'll show you is here
on the configuration tab.
When you're logged in as an administrator,
there are a number of configurations you can make.
For instance,
you can do some configurations around spring
and some other JDBC configurations
will give you a bunch of options that you can talk about.
Connection pool leaks, connection pool leak details,
some interesting items that you might be interested in
if you're concerned with looking at connection information.
And then finally you can add instrumentation,
which I'm not going to demonstrate to you now,
but you can add additional instrumentation to methods
that you may be interested in getting more detail
about their performance.
So this is a bit about Glowroot.
And Glowroot represents a class of application performance
monitoring platforms that are essential to being able
to get insight into the performance
of your spring application.